who decides when video game addiction
becomes a problem who decides when
you're merely playing video games and
it's not a problem and it's crossed some
dotted line into being an addiction or
into son that has a deleterious effects
in your life who decides when you're not
merely drinking alcohol but you are in
fact an alcoholic who decides when
drinking alcohol becomes a problem the
answer is you do you decide but I'm here
on the Internet let's try to encourage
you to make the right decision because
there's a right decision and there's a
wrong decision or we can put it this way
there's one right decision and there are
hundreds thousands of wrong decisions
the excuse making mentality is very
deeply seated within all of us once we
get it into our minds to make an excuse
any excuse will do anyone any dozen any
hundred and we can keep on making up new
excuses or whole lives long when is your
sexuality a problem when are you a sex
addict or when are you letting sexual
desire destroy your life I think my own
father when he was a younger man could
have been described as a sex addict at
any rate whatever term you want to use
one way or another he let his desires
destroy his life and destroy many other
people's lives also it's not as if
there's a simple textbook definition and
if there were he wouldn't accept it he
had nine children with a whole bunch of
different women lied to all the women he
didn't think it was a problem he didn't
think getting women pregnant and then
abandoning them was a problem he didn't
think lying to women was a problem maybe
from my perspective
we actually have some very telling red
flags there right okay what if the
moment you have to lie to a one to have
sex with her
what if already then your sexuality is a
problem right again maybe sex addict
isn't the right word maybe already your
sexuality is out of control when you're
lying to others when you're lying to
yourself what if it when you're what if
when you're making excuses that's the
red flag my father had nine children but
he never admitted to anyone I was his
own youngest son but he would never
admit it to me he lied to me his whole
life long about how many kids he had
with how many women she the fact that
you lie to yourself the fact that you
lied your kids the fact this son you lie
about maybe that's maybe that's a red
flag right I mean but the same token if
you're lying to people about how much
you play video games if you're lying to
people about how much you drink alcohol
if you're already into the excuse making
mentality maybe we have here one
possible objective criterion we could
agree upon as to why something like this
you know may be a problem why maybe
you're making the wrong decision why
maybe you're embracing some of the wrong
excuses our sense of what is a normal
level of self-indulgence of what is
justifiable level of self intelligence
largely derives from our cultural
context right so in Muslim societies
there's very very little tolerance for
drinking alcohol in fact I mean if
you've lived in Malaysia if you've lived
in some Muslim countries you will have
seen people who are members of the
Muslim faith drinking some alcohol but
in general there is very very little
tolerance for drunkenness or consumption
of alcohol in strict Muslim cultures
varies a little bit from place to place
if you live in the United Kingdom if you
live in England Scotland or
you have to drink a lot of alcohol
before anyone will call you an alcoholic
before anyone will suggest it's a
problem you can drink yourself to death
and people will go to your funeral and
say well at least he never had a
drinking problem the level of cultural
tolerance cultural normalization of that
behavior of that form of self
intelligence it's very very significant
and that all you need to do is take your
own little step into the excuse making
mentality you can ruin your whole life
this way all the time saying and
thinking and feeling that you don't have
a problem I have many many brothers as
mentioned my father at nine kids one of
my brothers came to attend a lecture I
gave on Buddhism this is a lecture in a
formal University academic theatre at
the invitation of professors to a very
erudite crowd and this brother of mine
showed up and I hadn't seen him face to
face in something like five years before
that meeting and after the lecture we
went to a kind of social area on campus
this is a British campus in London
England so I think they called like a
common room they don't call it a bar or
they don't call it a nightclub but you
know it's a university common room
something like this and at this common
room they served alcohol but they had a
rule that was something like they
weren't allowed to serve alcohol before
4 o'clock in the afternoon it might have
even been 3:30 in the afternoon it was
something like that you know they had
some rule on the books you know that it
wouldn't serve alcohol until a certain
hour and my brother he sat there
fidgeting he went up to the bar
repeatedly he made it clear to the
bartender that the moment the clock hit
3:30 or whatever the magic number was
that the guy should bring over drinks to
him right away he didn't get drunk that
day he didn't get rum but I got to see
him going through like withdrawal
symptoms I got
nervously looking at the clock looking
at the bar where he couldn't wait 15
minutes he couldn't wait 30 minutes to
get a drink of alcohol and there was no
pressure on him we were just sitting
around chit-chatting after I gave this
lecture on but ISM you could see add
what we call dependency he was dependent
on the drug whether emotionally or
chemically you know and was shocking he
didn't think it was shocking he doesn't
think he has a problem as long as you
can hold down a job but pay your rent
pay our taxes especially in that society
nobody is gonna tell you of a problem
nobody's gonna talk about the
opportunity cost nobody's to talk about
what you're not doing with your life
because what you are doing with your
life is drinking alcohol right that same
brother so I talked to him that day I
talked to you about five years before
and then I talked to him about five
years before that at the time I knew the
precise number of years and at our last
meeting there he he asked me a question
about Buddhism and I said to him you
asked me this exact same question five
years ago and you asked me the same
question five years before that so I've
seen you like oh three times in so many
years and each time we met you asked me
that question and each time you didn't
remember asking me the time for the
second time he asked I remember telling
that I said you know you asked me that
exact same question the last time I saw
you so you know what why do you think
that is you don't remember asking me the
same question and you don't remember my
answer because I remember I can give you
exactly the same answer I mean the first
time he asked me that question as I
recall was just getting started as a
scholar I put a sum in terms of how how
these years all line up but I already
knew I already knew the answer the
question question about a specific issue
in ancient or medievalism you know
what's not a stupid question by the way
but it's the sort of question you might
remember asking or you play from look
for the answer to now there's no simple
cause-and-effect explanation that
he drinks alcohol therefore he doesn't
remember but drinking alcohol is part of
a reckless aimless self-indulgent
self-destructive life that guy leads my
long my long lost brother and you know
genetically that guy I don't think he
was born any stupider that I am I don't
think he was born any less gifted I
don't think he was born any less
advantages neither mentally nor in terms
of the education he had growing up and
he's traveled all around the world that
guy he's been to many of the same places
I've been to he traveled extensively in
India he traveled in Cambodia but if you
ask him what he did in these places
because you know I remember talking
about Cambodia Cambodia has been a big
part of my life most of the stories he
has to tell involve drugs and alcohol he
doesn't think he has a problem the whole
world doesn't think every he's married
his wife doesn't think is a problem what
he has is a meaningless life and
everywhere he goes even if he has some
kind of intellectual pretensions and he
does when he was in India at one point
he was filming a documentary about a
Hindu religious ritual he ostensibly has
interest in the history of Hinduism and
Buddhism he travels to these places and
visits museums and ancient archeological
sites he takes with him the
meaninglessness of his own life and he
acts out and sustains that
meaninglessness partly through drugs and
alcohol when you are living an
unexamined life when you are living a
life of this kind of self-indulgence
doesn't matter if you go to India and it
doesn't matter if you go to Cambodia and
it doesn't matter if you go to see the
pyramids in Egypt you might as well have
just stayed at home alright he comes
back none the wiser he comes back none
the richer and yeah you know what he has
funny stories about drinking
alcohol using mind-altering drugs and
womanizing from all over the world
he has stories about chasing women from
all the world to him and it's not a
problem when is it a problem it's a
problem when you decide it's a problem
it's a problem when you admit to
yourself it's a problem it's a problem
when you get dissatisfied with your own
excuses when you get dissatisfied with
the status quo
you've been living with so you guys know
I do have a small number of people
writing in to me who are very highly
motivated to rationalize the time that
they're putting into video games and I
said before you can take this problem
and dilute it to the point where it
becomes meaningless if you're talking
about playing videos for five minutes a
day I admit at that point it's not the
same problem as three hours a day it's
not and I compared this to eating soap
if there are tiny amounts of soap that
you're reading and there probably are on
your plates on your Forks and your
knives on your glasses there is soap
residue on a lot of these things your
body can tolerate a certain amount of
soap in the diet however that doesn't
mean eating soap is a good thing so you
can dilute the problem down to where
it's so few minutes per day on
videogames that it's really not a big
deal anymore that still doesn't mean I
recommend playing video games that still
doesn't mean I recommend eating soap I
don't recommend it hate the fact that
you can tolerate with it the fact that
you can cope with it does not mean I
recommend it um I am probably gonna read
books on paper in English today for
about 1 hour and 30 minutes in total
you know so I don't count reading in
Chinese in this category but reading
English on paper today about 1 hour and
30 minutes honestly III don't think I
have time for any more I really don't
think I have time and if I wanted to
take more time to read I'd probably have
to refuse to talk to my girlfriend for
example I'd have to cut something else
out of my life
all right you can't tell me that playing
video games for one hour a day isn't a
significant commitment isn't a
significant sacrifice isn't a
significant decision you know what some
of you may have it under control
some of you may have it under control
where it's only one hour a day but I
think a lot of you if you're being
honest with yourselves and I I remember
when I was a kid a lot of you for being
honest ourselves you'll admit that you
tell yourself it's one hour a day but
some days it slips out of your control
something happens to the game that's
especially fascinating to you where you
get a brand-new game there's some reason
why what was supposed to be one hour
becomes three hours or four hours or
more that you keep playing right there
are people who say they have their
drinking under control and some do some
people drink alcohol in a very rigorous
limited way it exists but a lot of
people need to be honest themselves that
even if they tell themselves they're
only gonna have two beers or two shots
of whiskey that sometimes what began as
just two drinks just two servings of
whiskey turns into four six twelve turns
into a long night if every and it could
be for all kinds of reasons your friend
comes back from a long journey overseas
there's something to celebrate or maybe
there's something to mourn there's
something sad and even if it's just once
in a while that the drinking can get out
of control that it does get out of
control and you know what my father had
nine kids with a whole bunch of
different women you you don't have to be
a sex addict in a conventional sense for
your your sexuality to destroy your life
you don't have to be a sex addict for
your desire to destroy your life you
know in theory you could have nine kids
and you only had sex nine times right
you might think you're gonna have a
sexual encounter with somebody that's
only gonna last one hour and it could
end up resulting in pregnancy and
becoming a major you know driving force
in your life
20 years to come could change your life
for many hundreds of hours for many many
years to come right he could get out of
control
I know these videos I've made have had a
positive impact on people's lives
they've been writing into me for years I
had a whole bunch of family unless if
people writing in and saying how
positively it impacted their lives just
to hear me talk through the implications
of the decision to play video games or
the decision never to play video games
again if you really want to come on
YouTube and make the kind of argument
that you guys are running into me just a
few of these you guys are running into
me and saying oh well how is video how
is playing video games for a few hours
you are they are better or worse than
then some other hobby if you want to
make those excuses
do you do you really think that's gonna
have a positive effect on other people's
lives do you think about we're here
making excuses for my brother's
lifestyle and saying hey it's fine you
can get drunk six days a week and travel
around the world and get drunk and use
hard drugs and womanize you can live a
life just my brother if I were
encouraging people to live this way you
know or even to put it in terms of
what's the upper limit of what you can
get away with before it becomes a
problem
you know how much soap can you eat
before it ruins your digestion before it
starts having negative impacts I mean
what's what's the maximum amount of soap
you can eat know the fact that you can
accidentally eat some soap in your diet
and still be okay that doesn't mean that
we should direct our attention to
warrants how much we can we can possibly
get away with the fact that there's no
objectively real standard for when
drinking becomes a problem for when
playing video games becomes a problem
the fact that there's no objectively
real standard doesn't mean that there
isn't a subjectively real standard right
it's subjective but it's still real it
still matters it still has consequences
in your lives
mine it's going to be relative to your
ambition how ambitious you are it's
going to be relative to the type of
person you want to be if all that you
want to be is a couch potato then
drinking alcohol and playing video games
and having a life of short-term thinking
and self-centered self-indulgence of
course you're gonna have a tremendous
tolerance to that you're never gonna run
out of excuses for that as soon as you
have some ambition as soon as your the
some ambition that gets you off that
couch that makes you aspire to be a
better person to do better things then
those excuses start to seem sillier and
sillier stranger and stranger why were
you ever making excuses for sedating
yourself why were you ever making
excuses for engaging in childlike
entertainment children's entertainment
as an adult why it starts to become
unthinkable the difference between
subjective and objective is not the
difference between unreal and real all
right the point at which drinking
alcohol becomes a problem is up for you
to decide but that doesn't mean that
there is no wrong answer I'm asking you
now to make the right decision I'm
asking you to choose reality over
fantasy I'm asking you to choose to live
in the real world the world of sobriety
the world of nonfiction instead of yes a
simulated world of diversion a world of
fantasy a world of video games